That was a lot of heavy stuff and there's more to come.
But for now, let's get some code under
our fingers and concentrate on what these three paradigms
look like in practice by writing the same program in three paradigms.
The first paradigm we'll look at is the imperative one.
In this program, we have a name and an hour,
and the greeting variable starts out as empty and then it's
added to based off of the hour if statement.
Now to me, that's always a mark that we're working in imperative program because we get
our final result by taking the updated
greeting variable and concatenating it with the name and some extra punctuation.
If we run this code,
you can see that we get an output of Hello Captain Kirk.
The next paradigm we'll take a look at is the functional.
Let's see what one of those programs looks like.
Here again, we have our same program but written in the functional paradigm.
If I run this code,
you can see that we get exactly the same response as the first imperative program,
but this code already looks a little bit different.
We have multiple functions here,
and the greet function is actually returning a function that returns our value.
But don't get intimidated if this syntax isn't familiar to you,
we'll go on to look at it in more detail in the rest of the course.
The important things to note right now are that our result comes
from calling multiple functions on some inputs.
We never update any variables.
The last paradigm we'll look at is object-oriented.
The object-oriented code might already look a
little more familiar to you then the functional did.
We have a class of person with the methods that allow us to create our greeting,
and then we have the property of name that holds the state of our program.
Those are the two main things of
a object-oriented program that classes hold both functionality and state.
Here, if we create a new instance of class person as Kirk,
we can then call the greet method on Kirk and we'll
get the same output as we did with the others.
Now you can see that our imperative returns the same as our functional and again,
the same as our object-oriented.
Hopefully, this quick walk-through gave you
a better picture of the practical differences between these paradigms.
In the next section, you'll be able to practice these paradigms yourself.